<h2></h2><p><p>REMOTE JOBS: IS IT FOR YOU?</p><p>AUTHOR: BARRI</p><p>One of the perks of being a developer and the plethora of jobs associated with it is the reality of working remotely. This means you can work from wherever you are. There are glorified stories of ‘work from home’ and ‘work while you travel’. Single mums, stressed employees, young graduates and people in other categories are latching on to this wonderful opportunity. You can work and still have time to do other things.</p><p>But is remote work as fanciful as it is presented?</p><p>There are disadvantages to working remotely that so many don’t put into consideration.</p><p>Ø Loneliness: Working in an office means you get to see your colleagues, chat with them and rub minds together. When you work from home, it is just you and your cat.</p><p>Ø Lack of motivation: Sometimes when you are stressed or low, seeing others work, laugh and talk is just what you need to get yourself moving again. If you work from home, you don’t get this.</p><p>Ø Running out of ideas: In an office environment, meetings are held where teams share ideas, listen to each other and make improvements. Yes, I know we could share ideas on slack or any other platform, but because there are people of like-minds together in a space, just being around them could trigger an idea for you or help you improve on an existing one.</p><p>Ø Procrastination: Because you work on your own time and space, it is very easy and common to leave task unattended till a later time. It is also very easy to be distracted by other frivolities. This could make you more stressed out when you return to the tasks and you have to rush through them to meet deadlines.</p><p>While remote jobs are seriously gaining momentum, it is advisable to check if remote is what you really need and if you have the emotional and physical stability to&nbsp;</p></p>