# Contributing to Ziki

## A Note on File Structure (for frontend team)

Move on to [Installation](#installation) if you want to skip this
section.

### PHP pages

The current pages from the last round are still present (404,
about-ziki, auth (a modal), blog-detail, index, and
user-profile-setting). Except for `auth.php`, each of the other
files `include`s the header and footer files. The header and footer
files already contain a wrapping `<div class="container"></div>`,
so you can go ahead to write your code inside without worrying about
a wrapping container div. There are comment lines indicating where
the frontend code should be added to avoid touching some of the
backend code and the `include` statements. Ensure not to remove
the `include` statements that add the header and footer files to
the page you're working on.

### CSS files

The CSS folder (`assets/css/`) currently only contains `base.css`,
which is the file that will contain the site-wide styles and color
variables for light and dark versions of the theme.

Create a style sheet for the page you're working on, or use the
existing one if it already exists. Speak with your page partner to
ensure you're both on the same page (no pun intended).

There is a gulp task set up to combine all the CSS files into one,
`main.css`, which is in the `build` folder. This folder is set up
to be ignored by git because it is easily generated by the gulp task.
It is therefore _not_ part of the files in this repository. You will
need to either run `npm start` or `npx gulp processCSS` to generate
this file.

The site's colors will _all_ be added to `base.css` based on the
color values used in the designs. This means every color you will
want to use will be in that file. So, you only have to use the
variable containing that color in your code, rather than writing
out the actual color values. Because the `main.css` file will be a
merger of all CSS files, CSS variables declared in `base.css` will
be available to your particular style rules when the browser
actually loads the page. So feel free to only use colors found in
`base.css`. If you see a color in the designs that is not in
`base.css`, inform any of the frontend/design team leads so that the
relevant updates can be made either by you or them.

#### Class names conflicts

To minimize conflicts in `main.css` between style rules for pages,
have an outermost div that contains all the HTML for your page. Give
that div a class name corresponding to the page
(eg. `class="timeline-page"`). Prefix all your rules in your
stylesheet with this selector to ensure that only your page receives
these rules. For instance,

```
.landing-page blog-container {
  ...
  ...
}
```

If you can't have one outermost div, ensure that all outermost
elements contain this class name.

## Installation

**This project works with PHP and npm**

- Fork the repo
- Clone your fork

```
git clone https://github.com/<yourusername>/ziki
cd ziki/
```

- Use the `fe-backend-dev` branch.

```
git checkout fe-backend-dev
```

- Install dependencies

```
composer install --no-dev
npm install
```

- Start the local server

```
npm start
```

You can view the website on `localhost:9000`.

**Note**: The PHP server is running on **port 8000** but the
[live reload](#live-reload) is on **port 9000**. So you can still
visit the usual `localhost:8000` and see the website.

### Live Reload

Live reload allows you to make changes to files without manually
refreshing the browser. Currently, it is set up only for the CSS
files in the `assets/css/` folder. So when you make your CSS changes
and save them, the browser should automatically get updated. This
will also be set up for PHP files after a few issues are resolved. For
the time being, manually refresh your browser to see any changes
made to PHP files.

#### Live reload not working

If you experiencing issues with live reload, you can manually perform
the relevant steps.

- If you have not yet started the local server, run:

```
php -S localhost:8000
```

An alternative to this is to use the desktop app for your XAMP/WAMP
installation.

- After each change you make to a CSS file, run:

```
npx gulp processCSS # this bundles all CSS files into one file
```

Then refresh the browser.

## Notice

- For every task you, dont push to the `master` branch!!!
- All icons are on the designs. Dont use Font Awesome. Thanks.
- Create a well detailed Pull Request please. Add screenshots of
  tasks done. So we won't take time to review your PR.
- Please and Please, dont override peoples work. So there won't be
  conflicts up and down.
- Thanks . Enjoy!!!
